>>LISA GARR: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
"Gaiam Inspirations."
Have you ever fallen prey to one
of those get-rich-quick schemes
only to find that it didn't
work and what you really
got was poor quick?
Well, my guest
today, Derek Rydall,
is an expert in the
law of emergence.
And he says it's not
about getting rich at all.
It's about how can you
really achieve something
that you already have
to emerge within you?
Welcome to the show.
Thank you for being here.
>>DEREK RYDALL: It's
good to be here.
>>LISA: I just used
money as an example
because it's something that
so many people look to get.
>>RYDALL: Yes.
>>LISA: And it's
a really great way
to start this conversation
about the law of emergence,
because how can you
really have something
emerge from you that is money?
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
Well, we can talk a little about
what is the law of emergence.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>RYDALL: And basically,
the law of emergence, it's
the idea that everything
is already within you.
And you can think
of it like the way
that an oak tree is
already in the acorn.
And the acorn doesn't have
to go out and attract an oak
or achieve an oak
or become worthy
of an oak or
deserving of an oak.
But when the acorn surrenders
to the soil and the conditions
within the soil become
a match for that seed
pattern within the
acorn, then that which
is already inherent
in it emerges.
It's already there.
The oak is already there.
>>LISA: It doesn't have
to try to the be a tree.
>>RYDALL: It doesn't
have to try to be a tree.
It's already there.
And that same principle
that we see in all of nature
is a principal that is in us.
And we'll talk a little
bit about my story
and how I kind of discovered
this and how it's not
a principle I made
up, but it's something
that I codified in a way that we
can understand it and practice
it, because that's what all
the great masters have taught,
which is that there's
nothing out there to get.
This world can't
add anything to you.
But it also can't
take anything away.
And that's one of the
great secrets we're
going to talk about, I hope.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>RYDALL: But that
it's all within you.
>>LISA: So how did you come
about all of this information?
Tell us a little
bit about your past,
because it's very relatable.
>>RYDALL: Well, you
know, like so many people
I was on a path of trying to
improve myself and get over
my heartbreaks and breakups and
breakdowns and bad childhood.
And after years of
self-improvement therapy,
the only thing that I
improved was my ability
to very eloquently articulate
why I was so messed up.
>>LISA: Oh, yes.
Yes.
>>RYDALL: I could describe
with the best of them
every little reason
why I was so messed up.
But I was still a basket case.
>>LISA: Messed up.
>>RYDALL: And
interestingly, this
drive to improve myself
drove me ultimately to drink.
It made me addicted
to drugs and alcohol,
because the more I
tried to improve myself
from this place of feeling
broken and separate and lost,
the more it exacerbated
those feelings.
>>LISA: Oh.
You were trying to numb
yourself from that?
>>RYDALL: Eventually I had
to, because the pain of that--
and I'll explain why that
happens and so many of us
experience that.
But ultimately, I
had an experience
where I almost drowned.
And I was stuck in
a reef, underwater,
surrounded by giant spikes
of coral and fire coral
everywhere that's like
the equivalent of 1,000
jellyfish stings.
>>LISA: Oh.
Wow.
>>RYDALL: I was
surrounded by this.
And I'd been caught
in this pocket.
I'd gone underwater diving.
And my prayer was to get lost.
I was on a shoot for a film.
And I was in a very dark place.
And you know, be careful
what you pray for,
because I got lost.
And at some moment in
this pocket of coral where
I'm literally having to breathe
in short staccato breaths,
you know, like [BREATHING
QUICKLY AND SHALLOWLY],
because I couldn't breathe too
deeply or I would have been
skewered by these spikes--
>>LISA: You had a tank?
>>RYDALL: I didn't, no.
I was like diving where
you have a snorkel then you
deep-dive and you come back up.
And I'd gotten into this pocket
where I was about this far
under the water, but giant
spikes all underneath me.
And I didn't know
where the exit was.
It looked like an
underwater booby trap
tomb in an Indiana Jones movie.
And I was there for a long time.
And my mind went through
all the scenarios
of how was I going to get out,
how was I going to escape,
who would come rescue me.
Nobody knew I was there.
And I got to the
point where I was
no longer afraid of drowning.
I knew I was going to.
And it's hard to explain
what that moment is.
But the ego had gone through
all of its scenarios,
even imagining becoming famous
posthumously as an actor.
Like it's just going
anywhere to try
to get out of the situation.
And finally I realized,
I'm going to drown.
And the only thing that
was left was to surrender.
And it wasn't-- I had already
tried to negotiate with
the universe, you know, God,
if you get me out of this,
I'll go to church on
Sunday kind of thing.
>>LISA: All of this happened
within a couple of minutes?
>>RYDALL: No.
No.
This was a longer
period of time.
I was stuck under
there for a while.
And I was starting to
hyperventilate and maybe
even hallucinate.
And I realized that all
there was to let go.
It was that moment of
complete surrender.
And in that moment of
complete surrender-- and this
all happened super-quick--
something cracked open.
And I could see suddenly,
like your whole life flashing
before you, that my whole
identity of who I thought I was
and what I had had trying to be
to escape in my life, all that
was just a fictional character.
And in that moment,
literally, this wave
came along and lifted me out
of the pocket-- I get chills
every time I think
about it-- and placed me
on top of the one spot outside
of the water on the coral reef
where I could stand.
And I could look
back in this reef
and see that the exit was
inches from me all along
and that this labyrinth was
like a metaphor for my life.
I had been swimming
through this maze,
following all these
brightly colored fish,
looking for something
to grab my attention.
And I was stuck in a
pocket gasping for air.
And that was my life.
>>LISA: Ah, yes.
>>RYDALL: And suddenly
in that moment
it was like Humpty
Dumpty fell off
the wall and the
shell cracked open.
And I couldn't put
words to it then.
But I knew that the me that
swam out of that labyrinth
was not the same
guy that swam in.
And I could see this
shimmering energy
behind everything and everyone.
And I eventually
pulled out of society.
I was going to become a monk.
And--
>>LISA: Because it was such
an impactful experience?
>>RYDALL: So it shook
my entire framework.
And again, I couldn't
put language to it.
It was a lot like I
knew intellectually
this is what it all meant.
That old identity had been
ripped from its moorings.
And I couldn't put it
back together again.
And I eventually cloistered
myself in my apartment
and discovered-- had a
deeper discovery of what
was this self that I was
introduced to in that reef?
>>LISA: Well, and
also, what was the ego
that it had such a strong hold
on you to have you really--
and many, many people, convinced
that the better way is out,
is to end life.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
Well, you know,
well, the ego-- yeah.
It's an interesting thing,
because to the ego, what
was interesting over the next
year after that experience,
I experienced tremendous dreams
of death and destruction.
And I realized in
retrospect that the ego
doesn't know the difference
between actual death
and psychological death,
because the ego's just
a set of programs.
So to the ego, real change
is equivalent to death.
And that's why it avoids it.
>>LISA: Completely.
>>RYDALL: It in fact
has an entire mechanism
that's designed
to prevent change.
>>LISA: It's a
survival mechanism.
>>RYDALL: It's a
survival, because it's
like a virus getting
into the software.
Change is like a
virus to the ego.
That's a new one.
I mean, think about that,
why we have such a challenge.
In fact, it's so
well developed, it
will trick us into
thinking we're
changing while actually
keeping us the same.
And when I was in
that experience--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
It's pretty intense.
In that experience,
I could finally
see that this self
that I was trying
to improve and fix and all
that, that it didn't actually
exist except as a concept.
And because when that cracked
open, I saw that the real self,
it's already whole.
It's already complete.
And it's never been damaged or
diminished by any experience.
It was never
touched or tarnished
by all those
experiences, so it didn't
need to be fixed or healed.
>>LISA: It was whole.
>>RYDALL: It was already whole.
And it was already--
like Rumi said,
if you could see
who you really are,
you would bow before
yourself in worship,
because the self I could
feel and I could see
was just a masterpiece,
like Michelangelo
who would see the angel
already in the block of marble
and believe that the
divine put it there
and he would chip away
everything but it.
>>LISA: Aha.
Yes.
That it would rise
from the marble, yes.
>>RYDALL: It would
emerge from the marble
when he-- as long as
he caught the vision
and he began to just
remove everything
that wasn't this
completed masterpiece.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>RYDALL: And I
remember in that moment
I realized that my work
with myself and with others
was no longer to try to
fix or change or heal,
but to get a glimpse of that
masterpiece that's already
hidden in that block
of mortal stone
and help to free that angel.
>>LISA: And that's
what emergence is.
>>RYDALL: And that's
>>LISA: It's not to
fix or chip away.
It's just to bring
what's already there--
>>RYDALL: What's already there.
>>LISA: So no amount
of tragedy or scarring
as a child or incidents
could actually
destroy that part of us.
>>RYDALL: It doesn't
even touch it.
>>LISA: Never.
>>RYDALL: Never.
That's what it
means in the Bible
when it says all the years
the locusts have eaten
shall be restored unto you.
And behold, I make
all things new.
It's telling you about
a principle, a principle
that this perfect idea,
this divine pattern
of inexhaustible and
unimaginable beauty
and power and abundance and
genius that is who you really
are, that it's
already who you are.
And you can't improve
upon it, either.
I mean, that's really
important to know.
That's why I ended up
saying that self-improvement
was an oxymoron, because once
you get who the self is, what
the self is, you
can't improve it.
>>LISA: There's nothing
to improve upon.
>>RYDALL: So then
it just becomes,
I've got to get in
touch with it and I've
got to become in
alignment with it
so that it can begin to emerge.
And I use the-- go ahead.
You want to say something.
>>LISA: Well, you were
saying-- back to the apartment,
where you stayed
in the apartment,
for how long did you stay there?
>>RYDALL: It was several years.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>RYDALL: And I got rid
of TV and news and books
and everything.
And I just went on
this inner journey.
I went out just to like
study with masters and sit,
you know, and be in
meditation environments
and then come back,
because like I said,
I was going to become a monk.
And I just went on
this inward journey.
And again, I could see
that the reason why
I was suffering and
struggling so much
is because, again, if you're
coming from the premise
that you're broken,
that you're inadequate,
that something's lacking
or missing or wrong, then--
because that's completely
a false premise,
then everything you
do from that premise
is a form of
resistance to what's
actually trying to emerge.
And so most of my efforts
to improve my life
were the very resistance to the
thing that was there naturally
trying to come out,
and that my burning
desire for a better
life, that was real.
From the emergence
model, desire means
"of the sire" or
"from the heavens."
It's not a sign
of what's outside
that you have to go get.
It's a sign of what's
inside trying to get out.
You're literally
pregnant with it.
And so we feel that desire.
And then we try to
like go out and make
it happen instead of
recognizing it's within us
and we need to open up
and make it welcome.
>>LISA: Well, when
you make it welcome,
just like I use the
example of gaining wealth,
how do you bring that-- how
does that emergence from within
have you match the
vibration of wealth?
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
So it's all about congruence.
And one analogy I
love is to make this--
because you were like saying,
well, it's all within us.
But there's not like a
bunch of dollar bills
in us or something.
>>LISA: Right.
>>RYDALL: Like how do
we make that connection?
>>LISA: Right.
>>RYDALL: And the first
thing is to understand
that wealth and really
everything that's real
is invisible and
it's vibrational
and it's energetic or spiritual.
And to bring that
home a little bit,
it's not so woo-woo when
you think about broadcast.
So right now where
we're sitting,
our favorite music is playing.
Information that would change
our lives is broadcasting.
It's broadcasting.
It's in the field.
But we can't experience
it unless we're
tuned in to that station
where it's playing.
>>LISA: So it's available
to us right now.
>>RYDALL: It's right now.
It's actually here.
And you know, and you
could be depressed.
You could be whatever.
And there's information that's
broadcasting-- I'm not even
talking spiritually, I mean
literally-- in this field
that if you could tune in to
the station that's playing,
it would change you instantly.
You'd be inspired.
You'd get the information
you need, right?
>>LISA: You would change.
Yes.
>>RYDALL: So we understand
that as a principle.
We know radio.
And what happens when you
tune in to the station
where that broadcast
is playing, you
didn't make that music happen.
Again, you made it welcome.
And it wasn't playing
in your future.
It wasn't playing
in the distance.
It was actually playing
right where you are.
But you had to
match the frequency.
And when you find the station
and you tune in to that,
it manifests.
You have a manifestation.
>>LISA: So then
what is resistance?
What is it when you
resist something so much
or you don't want something
that is attracting to you?
What is that?
>>RYDALL: Well, again,
one of the biggest things
that keeps us stuck and
keeps us in resistance
is the belief that something
or someone outside of us
has to change in
order for us to be
able to be, do, or
have what we want.
That's one of the biggest
misunderstandings.
And whenever we believe
that someone or something
outside of us is our source
of safety, security, supply,
or support, then the universe
is actually set up to betray us.
It's a principle.
>>LISA: Really?
>>RYDALL: It's
set up to fail us.
>>LISA: You believe that?
>>RYDALL: I know it.
>>LISA: How?
>>RYDALL: Because
here's the thing--
and I experienced it too.
Because the truth is,
it's not outside of you.
And so if you think
it's outside of you,
you're actually
putting your power--
you're projecting your power
onto someone or something.
You'll start to
contort and control
and twist yourself
into a pretzel
to get what you think
they have, to not
lose what you think
they're going to take.
And that's the whole
trick we get caught up in,
when all along it's in you.
And the more you're
twisted up, the less you're
able to let out what's
in you, the less you're
able to be the authentic person
that you really are and bring
the gifts and the message
you're here to give,
because you're now all-- you're
in a whole coping mechanism
to try to get or get rid of what
you think someone or something
outside of you has over you.
>>LISA: After you
had that experience,
did you no longer have
the desire to be an actor?
Or did you change
your line of work?
Or were you working at the time?
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
I mean, I was-- I stopped
working for a long time.
I was sort of living
off of my nest egg.
And yeah, I guess I was
going to become a monk.
All I wanted to do
was just connect
with this something
that I had experienced,
this inner source,
this inner presence.
And I began to read ancient
texts and scriptures
and the Bibles and the texts
of Buddha and all these things
that I'd thrown across
the room literally,
you know, frustrated with.
>>LISA: Yes.
These don't mean anything.
Yes.
>>RYDALL: It's like just a bunch
of just gobbledy-gook and just
frustrated.
And now I was reading
them and going, oh, yeah.
>>LISA: That's what that means.
>>RYDALL: That's what that is.
Oh, yeah.
Because I had
experienced it directly.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>RYDALL: And I
was like, oh, yeah.
So Jesus is saying behold
the kingdom of heaven
is at hand now.
But having eyes, you can't
see it and having ears,
you can't hear it.
That's--
>>LISA: The ego.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
And he's saying, it's
already broadcasting.
It's already here.
But you're thinking
it's what's appearing.
You're thinking it's the dollar
bills or the economy that's
your source.
And he's saying, as Buddha
said, it's within you.
And when you get in touch
with that thing within you
and you become
aligned with it, it
naturally emerges, not
by struggle and force,
but by grace.
And I remember one
particular experience--
I don't know if we've
talked about this.
But it was around money.
And I was in my apartment.
And I had been doing all
this deep inner work.
And at some point,
my bank account,
my savings account dwindled down
to just pretty much nothing.
And I was on the verge
of being evicted.
And I had bill
collectors knocking
at my back door, my landlord
knocking at my front door.
And I'm sitting in the middle of
the room in my meditation chair
like, ohm, you know.
And I'm like, you know,
why have you forsaken me?
I was so ticked off at God
or whatever my concept was.
I was like, how
is this possible,
after all the work I've
done that I'm broke again?
And I was so mad.
I could say some other words.
>>LISA: OK.
>>RYDALL: And--
>>LISA: Don't.
>>RYDALL: I won't.
But I basically, I
put down an ultimatum.
I sat in that chair that
night and I said, OK, God,
if there even is one, I'm not
getting up from this chair
until I know the truth.
Either this stuff
is real or it's not.
But one way or the other,
I'm finding out tonight.
And I sat in that-- it was kind
of like my Gary Sinise moment
in "Forrest Gump,"
you know, where
he's like on the top of the
mast and he's like, bring it on.
And I was very, very adamant.
And I sat in that chair.
And daylight turned to
dusk and the crickets
came out for their
nightly chorus.
And like Jacob, I was wrestling
with my angels and demons
and feeling like I was
getting pinned to the floor.
And at some point in
the middle of the night,
this energy like
opened up in me.
And it was like a voice,
but not really a voice.
And it basically said, you made
your savings account your god.
You made you savings
account your source.
And whenever you make anything
outside of you your source,
it will fail you.
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
>>RYDALL: And it was like, poof.
And I got the truth of it.
You know, it's like thou
shalt have no other gods
before me kind of thing.
It was pretty intense.
I literally was looking around,
like half-expecting Moses
to be standing there
with a tablet, you know.
And in that same moment, it was
like a pressure valve opened up
in me.
And all that stress just
drained out of my body.
And this peace came over me.
And I just get that, I can feel
it again as I talk about it.
And it was a peace that had
nothing to do with conditions.
It could be called the peace
that passes understanding.
And I rolled into
bed and fell asleep.
And for the next few days, I
was just in this place of peace.
Nothing had changed
in the world.
>>LISA: Bill collectors
were still there.
>>RYDALL: They were still there.
My landlord was
still walking around
in her nightgown with
her cigarette with an ash
hanging off the end, you know.
>>LISA: This was like a movie.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
>>LISA: It's a bad movie.
>>RYDALL: And I'm still
eating my $0.19 boxes
of macaroni and cheese.
And then the phone rings.
And it's my former agent.
And he goes, hey, Derek.
I know you don't do commercials
anymore and acting anymore
because you're too spiritual.
I was pretty crazy back then.
He says, but they
just called looking
for you out of the blue.
And I ended up going on this
audition, booking this thing,
and for two days' work made more
than I'd ever made in a year.
But the key was that in
that moment of reconnection
of the real source of
abundance in my life,
I couldn't have outlined
that way of it showing up
in my life.
>>LISA: Right.
>>RYDALL: It was
beyond my imagination.
>>LISA: So you didn't become
the vibrational match for it.
You didn't intend it
out in the universe.
You didn't have goals and lists.
You just were.
>>RYDALL: Well, I became
the vibrational match.
But it happened as
a moment of grace.
From that moment of
breakdown, in that moment,
that peace that
came through, that
was the match, because
if you imagine,
if you had all of your needs met
abundantly, how would you feel?
>>LISA: Complete.
>>RYDALL: Complete.
You'd be at peace.
>>LISA: You would
want for nothing.
>>RYDALL: And that's
how I felt, even
though the conditions
hadn't changed.
>>LISA: Right.
Your relationship
to them changed.
>>RYDALL: My relationship
to the conditions changed.
As I often say, the real
sign of spiritual growth
is not so much that the
condition changes yet,
but that your response
to it changes.
>>LISA: And then the condition
changes as a result of that.
>>RYDALL: Exactly.
>>LISA: Mysteriously,
but not so much.
>>RYDALL: It's not
so mysterious when
you understand the principle of
emergence, when you understand
that, like, when you tune
in to a radio station
and suddenly you
get the music that's
expected from that channel,
you don't got, oh my god.
It's a miracle.
You go, of course.
You'd be really-- that would
be weird if it didn't work.
>>LISA: Yes.
How would you-- how do you
live your life like that?
I mean, things happen,
upsetting things.
Things don't go as planned.
There's accidents.
There's robberies.
Things like that
happen in the world.
>>RYDALL: They do.
>>LISA: So how do you change
your relationship with them
so that the situation then
changes as a result of that?
>>RYDALL: Well, there's
two questions in there
that I think are
really important.
We'll see if we can
unpack them both.
First is, how step by
step do you actually
practice emergence?
That's the first
kind of question.
Like, how do you do this
for real in the world?
Like, what's the
practical application?
>>LISA: Right.
>>RYDALL: And the second
thing is, how do you
deal with the crises and
the problems and the stuff
happens kind of thing?
When that stuff
happens, you've got
to turn it into fertilizer
to grow more, right?
>>LISA: You mean, you use it
as fodder to grow more with?
>>RYDALL: When you realize,
because from the emergence
model, you begin to
understand in the quantum
model of wholeness and
oneness that there really
isn't something other
than good going on.
But there can be an
experience less than that,
but there's only a
oneness, only a wholeness.
And again, all the
masters have taught this.
Quantum physics now
are discovering this.
And so what that means
is that everything,
even that-- that
crisis is really
an evolutionary catalyst.
It's a trigger point.
That problem is actually
an answered prayer.
You've been praying or
affirming or wanting to grow.
Let's say you want to have
more abundance in your life.
And you've been praying,
abundant, abundant, abundant,
maybe even activating it.
But if you are anywhere
holding on to structures
of belief, concept, or
habit that are not a match,
guess what?
They're going to come up.
And they're going
to show up as what
could be called problems
or crises or breakdowns.
But just like the jack
pine in the forest
requires a fire, the forest fire
that rages through and burns
away the ground cover,
burns open the canopy,
it melts the glue
around the pine cones
and releases the seeds
for the next level,
opens up the canopy
so more light gets it.
That fire is actually
act-- is a condition that's
necessary for the next
level of evolution.
>>LISA: So do you look at
everything that goes wrong
in your life as a--
>>RYDALL: Absolutely
as a condition.
>>LISA: --condition.
>>RYDALL: Everything,
all of life
is conspiring for your
freedom and your fulfillment.
That's a principle.
>>LISA: Even things
that go wrong?
>>RYDALL: Especially,
because you're
like either in a rinse
or a wash cycle, right?
And so, you know--
>>LISA: That's a
profound analogy.
The housewife's analogy
of consciousness.
>>RYDALL: That's right.
Where are you?
Are you in the rinse, the wash?
>>LISA: It's in the wash cycle.
>>RYDALL: Are you
in the tumble dry?
>>LISA: You did
not just say that.
>>RYDALL: I said it.
I said it, baby.
Or you've got a little
static cling going on.
We could take the
metaphor too far.
>>LISA: Let's not.
>>RYDALL: But no, so
you are-- but it's fun.
This stuff, you know,
it's fun to have levity,
because levity is a
sign of enlightenment.
>>LISA: And we cannot take
ourselves too seriously.
>>RYDALL: There's
nothing serious
going on in the universe.
>>LISA: Well, one would think--
>>RYDALL: There's
nothing serious.
How could there be anything
serious from the standpoint
of wholeness and completeness
and eternality and immortality.
But from the relative
level when we've
identified with a
condition, an experience--
>>LISA: Like Ebola and those
types of-- those are serious.
>>RYDALL: Exactly.
Yeah.
And I don't mean that
we don't have reverence,
that we don't have
responsibility,
that we don't take things--
that we do what we have to do.
I just mean that there's an
underlying reality, a ground
of being that is joy, that is
peace, that is happiness, that
is fulfillment, and it has
nothing to do with conditions.
So you can be even in a
physically bad condition--
>>LISA: I was going to
say, what about health?
>>RYDALL: You can be
in a physically bad,
an emotionally bad
condition-- and I've had this.
You know, when I go on
long meditation retreats
and there's something physical
that's happening or coming up,
I might be in excruciating pain.
And I'm observing the
excruciating pain.
And in the moment, I snap
out of identifying with it.
And I recognize
it's just the pain.
It's not my pain.
It's the pain.
It's an energetic pattern.
And I'm able just to relax
and sit back and hold
that in a larger
place of compassion
and actually be in a place
of compassion and even joy
in the midst of what would be
physical or emotional pain.
So that's the potential.
So you begin to recognize
that all the challenges
we're facing, there's
an evolutionary trigger
or question there that we
start to ask ourselves.
What is the more
of me that's trying
to emerge by means of this?
What are the qualities I would
have to embrace or embody
or activate in order
to be completely
free in the midst of this?
And as you start to ask
those kind of questions,
you start to get at
the heart of what
the real meaning of
that challenge is.
The meaning of it
is some more of you,
more love, more compassion,
more joy, more wisdom, more
deeper connection with the
source of your real power,
whatever.
More of you is trying to emerge.
>>LISA: And that's the whole
basis of the law of emergence.
So is there anything that
has come up against the law
of emergence for you that
you cannot figure out,
like someone comes to
you that has cancer
or a life-threatening illness,
like the many different types
of viruses that are
coming about these days?
When you're
questioned about that,
how do you explain
those physical realities
against the law of emergence?
>>RYDALL: Well, it's important
to understand that there's life
and there's life experience.
And life is eternal, immortal,
indestructible, whole,
complete, perfect, is love.
It is joy.
And it's always and forever.
And it never goes off the air.
It's always broadcasting.
And life experience is
our relative perception
of this infinite perfection.
And we can experience as
little or as much of it
as we're willing and able to
tap into to become aligned with
and to see.
So we're not experiencing
life as it is.
We're experiencing
life as we are.
We're experiencing our concepts
and frameworks of life.
And that's neither good or bad.
It's just the way it works.
So what we call the
world isn't reality.
It's a collection of
beliefs and agreements.
And what we call our
own world, same thing.
That's why one person can be
sitting in heaven next to you
and the other person
can be sitting in hell,
and they're both in
the same condition.
So I would start there,
to understand that.
And then the second
thing is to know
that no appearance ultimately
has any power or authority
over you, because all power,
all substance, all law
is in consciousness.
So regardless of
what you're facing,
if you get in touch with
that truth of your being,
that vision that's
trying to emerge,
you can activate it
and begin to bring it
forth regardless of condition.
>>LISA: I wonder if this could
also have to do with thoughts.
So you know, our
thoughts sometimes,
you know, they
create our reality,
and we could think ourselves
into, as you did, destruction.
Can you take those
thoughts and the ones that
are self-defeating
thoughts and really
push them out with
the law of emergence?
Can you take the I'm
tired, I'm exhausted
and regain energy from
something like that?
Can you use it to
physically manifest?
>>RYDALL: Absolutely.
And though the slight
difference with emergence
is that you understand, again,
there's nothing to get rid of.
So even the I'm tired
thought, even the-- it's
like again to go
back to the natural--
because we all
have a lot of stuff
that we've been
trying to get rid of.
This part of me that feels
angry, that feels sad,
that feels ugly,
that feels sick,
that feels greedy
and selfish or god
forbid you're a heart-centered,
spiritually-minded people,
and you're selfish.
It's one of the biggest
shadows for a lot
of heart-centered
people and it's
what they most need to embrace.
But when you
understand that just
in-- what is the soil made of?
It's made of everything that
has died and decayed before.
It's all that has rotted
and decayed and it's dark.
And the darker and the
smellier, the better.
>>LISA: It's also got
nutrients and minerals.
>>RYDALL: Well, it's pure
What those are nutrients
and minerals made of?
>>LISA: Everything else.
>>RYDALL: Everything that has
died and rotted and decayed
before.
And if a seed tried
to grow the way
we do in our personal
development and all
that, it would get rid
of all the dirt, right?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>RYDALL: Because that's
all smelly and gross and bad
and dark and scary and dank.
And if it succeeded, it would
be finally on top of a rock.
And it would raise its little
seedling hands triumphant,
you know, I'm successful.
Victory at last.
No more dirt.
And the sun would come out
and shine its glorious rays
upon the seed and
burn it to a crisp.
And so the seed buries
itself in the dirt.
And when the sun comes
out now, the light
activates what's in the
darkness, what's in the dirt.
So when we embrace
those parts of us,
like the tired self--
if you find you're tired
and you don't want to
let yourself be tired,
you probably have a
shadow around being lazy,
around being a failure.
And if you check
early on, you got
a message early on
that said come on, now.
What are you doing
just laying around?
Or what are you
doing just playing?
And you got a message
that it was bad.
And so you began to create
a mask, a persona of being
the good boy and good girl,
hard worker, never get tired,
never get sick, and maybe
a caretaker and a do-gooder
and overachiever.
And all that's the
gift of the shadow,
because that was
activated as a reaction
to the thing you didn't
want to be, right?
But at a certain point,
it doesn't work anymore.
And it creates burnout.
And it creates other
kinds of backlash.
And you have to actually
embrace the very thing
you've been running from.
And when you do that,
a whole nother level
of what you want in your
life starts to emerge,
because it was just more
of the potential that
needed to be cultivated
in that soil.
>>LISA: Interesting.
Going back to the harvest.
So are there specific stages
of the law of emergence
that people could-- that
they go through or could
try to go through to reach
what you had in terms
of that awakening without
going through that specific
experience?
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
Absolutely.
I mean, that's the
whole point, hopefully,
is that they can
practice now consciously.
You know, you're going to
evolve one way or the other.
It's are you going to
do it consciously or get
dragged kicking and screaming?
And I was being dragged
kicking and screaming.
>>LISA: So your
goal now is to get
people to go through
this consciously
so they don't have to
go through what you did.
>>RYDALL: Exactly.
And it's not to say that--
>>LISA: They won't.
>>RYDALL: --we can avoid--
you know the old adage,
pain is unavoidable
but suffering
is, suffering's a choice.
>>LISA: OK.
>>RYDALL: So you know--
>>LISA: Or no pain, no gain.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
I mean, pain is a part
of life experience.
But it doesn't have
to be suffering.
Pain only becomes
suffering when there's
resistance, when
there's judgment.
>>LISA: And you apply your
relationship to it, yes.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
So I can't say this is
going to end the challenges.
But it's going to allow us
to embrace our challenges
and get the most out of them.
So the seven basic stages
are-- the first stage
is see the completed vision.
And that's basically
the process of beginning
to identify what is the
vision for your life?
What is trying to emerge?
>>LISA: Your whole life?
>>RYDALL: Well,
it doesn't have to
be your whole life.
It can be your whole life.
It can be one area of your
life, because any true framework
of principle can be applied
in the macro and the micro.
So you can just focus on a
relationship with emergence.
You can just focus on a project.
I've seen it work tremendously
successful in all the--
just when we wanted to get
our house, our first home,
we did that work.
And where we went from not
being able to afford it, no way,
no how, and in a couple months
moving into our dream house.
So it can be
focused in any area,
because it's a framework
that you can apply.
But the first thing is, you
must know where you're going.
That's another way to put it
because if you don't know where
you're going, every
road takes you there.
>>LISA: True.
You get diffused.
>>RYDALL: Right?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
Yeah.
And as it says in Proverbs,
where there is no vision,
the people perish.
It doesn't say they
have a bad day.
It says they perish.
If they don't
literally die, they
become like the walking dead.
And if you're not standing up,
if you're not living your own
life, you're living
someone else's.
>>LISA: Oh.
Right.
What they wanted for you.
>>RYDALL: Your peer
pressure, parental fantasy,
societal conditioning, just
the thought viruses in the air.
>>LISA: Dangerous, yes.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
So you need to become anchored
in your values, in your vision.
And one of the clues to
that is your deepest desire,
as we talked about earlier,
what you really, really,
really want, not just the big
screen TV and the new car,
though that might be a clue.
But what do you really want?
Who do you really want to be?
What do you really want to
have and do and contribute?
So you get in touch
with a vision.
And again--
>>LISA: What is
yours, by the way?
>>RYDALL: Well, my
core vision and mission
is to awaken people to
their true identity,
inspire them to
fulfill their destiny,
so that together we
can create a world that
works for the
highest good of all.
>>LISA: Hmm.
Big picture vision.
>>RYDALL: Big picture vision.
And I would say in the
smaller it's just awaking.
You know, in every
moment, in every project,
in every conversation,
it's about somehow,
some way awakening more.
>>LISA: So the first
step would be--
>>RYDALL: More awareness,
to put it into your term.
>>LISA: Right.
Right.
So the first step is to
be-- to get your vision.
>>RYDALL: To have a vision.
>>LISA: The long term.
Yeah.
>>RYDALL: And it
doesn't even have
to be-- because that
scares some people.
Oh my god.
I don't know what
I'm supposed to do.
>>LISA: I don't know.
Yeah.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
And so I say, what is
your burning desire?
Or you can look out
at the world and see
who really pulls you
and attracts you.
And identify what
is it about them,
their qualities,
their attributes,
and write that
down, because that's
a snapshot of what I
call a soul profile.
It's actually a projection of
what's in you trying to emerge.
That's why it pulls you.
So get in touch with
a vision, something.
Again, if it's just
that I want to have
more money,
financial security, I
want to just know that my
kids are going to be OK.
It can be small.
And that's not
small, by the way.
>>LISA: Yeah.
OK.
And then the next step.
>>RYDALL: And the next
step is now you take that
and you identify what are
the qualities of that vision?
If you were living
that vision-- this
is where visualization
is a good tool,
because you use visualization
not to make it happen
but to get in touch
with what it feels like.
>>LISA: Like the emotions of it?
>>RYDALL: The vibrations,
the emotional frequency,
the vibrational tone.
>>LISA: OK.
>>RYDALL: It's what I
call the LIFT practice,
Living In the Feeling Tone.
So you get in touch with that.
And that feeling tone
of joy-- like right now
if you stop to kind of
imagine the money coming in,
all is well, you'll
start to feel
a little bit of peace,
little bit of joy.
That's real.
And you notice it has nothing
to do with the condition,
because the condition
hasn't changed.
>>LISA: Right.
It's the feeling.
>>RYDALL: It's the feeling.
And it's a vibration.
It's you tuning the dial
of your consciousness
to the station where
your music is playing,
tuning from KLACK to KRICH.
And so it's right there.
And so you use
that, you identify
some of the qualities of
feeling and also identify
some of the qualities of being.
So the feeling are like
feeling joyful, maybe
abundant, peaceful, expanded.
>>LISA: Then you need actions
that are associated with those?
>>RYDALL: Well, no.
Then you identify the
qualities of being,
so that's like-- a being is a
more active quality, like being
loving, being spontaneous,
being playful, being generous.
>>LISA: Right.
>>RYDALL: So if you were--
>>LISA: Being forgiving.
>>RYDALL: Being forgiving.
So if you had this
thing, notice who
you're being in that vision.
You start to notice
I'm more playful.
I'm more outgoing.
Great.
Write that down.
So now you're starting to get
an energetic map of what's
actually trying to emerge.
So that's step two is cultivate
the congruent conditions.
So now you kind of
know what the seed
is, or least your best guess.
That's the vision.
That's the seed.
>>LISA: OK.
>>RYDALL: You're
now planting it.
And you're beginning to
cultivate the soil of your soul
so that it's matching
the seed pattern.
Again, you're not trying
to attract anything.
That's an important
contextual shift.
>>LISA: So you're
visualizing creating it.
>>RYDALL: To feel it.
>>LISA: And then you're
intensifying the emotions
around it.
>>RYDALL: Exactly.
You're cultivating it.
>>LISA: And then
you're becoming it.
>>RYDALL: And then
the step three
is create the quantum plan.
And we won't go into
all the details,
but you basically are taking
these qualities-- so let's just
say for example one of the
feeling qualities is joy.
And you ask a few questions.
You look at people, places,
activities, and objects
that have either activated
that in the past,
are presently doing it but
you don't spend a lot of time
with it, or you feel
would and you just
aren't finding time to do it.
So maybe you notice when
you sing you feel joy,
but you don't do it very often.
Or when you do yoga you feel
peace, but you never have time.
Or when you're hanging
out with so-and-so
or listening to their thing
or watching their TV thing,
you feel that, but you
can't make the time.
Now you notice that's
something you can consciously
engineer into your daily plan.
That's why it's called
emergineering, engineering
the emergence.
>>LISA: That's something
that's outside of you,
but it's chosen.
>>RYDALL: Exactly.
But you're using it not
to go out and get it,
but you're using it to
cultivate the conditions,
to create an environment
that's like putting food
into the soil.
It's feeding you.
It's activating you.
And because we've
already done this--
we've already
engineered our lives.
But we've engineered
them as a reaction,
as a reaction often from safety
and protection and coping.
But we've already done it.
We're already spending the
time with the people, places,
things, and activities
that match the vision
that we are
fundamentally holding.
So now we're consciously
co-creating a new environment
so that it's a match
for the life-- you want
to begin to surround yourself
with the people, places, things
that represent your
future, not your past.
>>LISA: What if some of those
people, places, and things
are not ones that
you want around you.
So say a brother who has a
scarcity complex or anger
issues or something like
that, but they're related to.
How do you change that?
I mean, you can't be
in resistance to it,
as you're saying, right?
>>RYDALL: Right.
>>LISA: OK, so--
>>RYDALL: Well, it's the
good news and the bad news.
I mean, part of it
is-- the first thing is
is that whenever you enter
a room or a relationship,
whatever you meet
is what you bring.
>>LISA: OK.
Let's talk about that.
What do you mean?
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
Because whatever is missing
is what you're not giving.
>>LISA: Whatever's missing
is what you're not giving?
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
Nothing can show
up in your life--
if you want more to
come into your life,
you have to have more
life come out of you.
That's emergence.
>>LISA: OK.
So if I come into a room
where someone's angry,
I'm not giving-- explain.
>>RYDALL: If it pushes
your buttons in any way,
if your response to it is
anything less than love
and compassion, then it's a
reflection of something in you.
>>LISA: Activating something.
>>RYDALL: It's activating
something in you.
And you are already a
vibrational match for that,
just like if you're tuned
in to a particular station
on a radio, all the people
that like that kind of music
are also tuned
into that station.
>>LISA: So I'm
bringing in an energy
where I might not be
expressing my anger?
>>RYDALL: Where you might
not be expressing it.
Or if it's touching,
it's because there's
anger in you that's unexpressed.
>>LISA: I see.
>>RYDALL: And when you deal
with that, one of two things
will happen.
As you take 100% responsibility
for your experience,
knowing that whatever
pushes or pulls
you is a projection of
your unintegrated potential
of emergence, then
one of two things
will happen in your environment.
That environment will change.
>>LISA: Right.
>>RYDALL: Or you will
be moved out of it.
It'll naturally happen.
And I use the example
when I was a waiter.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>RYDALL: I was a
waiter at a job.
I was an up and coming
actor, lost everything
after the opening
that I had, ended up
becoming a waiter,
had to wait on people
that I had been in movies with.
It was horrible.
And I began to practice
this and show up
as the person I
would be if I was
living the life of my dreams.
And I brought the
excellence and the joy
and the compassion
and the service.
And I got fired.
And then they realized I
hadn't done anything wrong.
They hired me back.
So I kept digging
deeper, doing the work.
And I was just-- I was
giving five-star service
in a three-star restaurant.
It was pissing off
the other waiters.
And it was, you know--
And eventually some
of them came around.
And then I got fired again.
And I was like, huh.
And then they were like, oh,
we realize it was mistake.
They hired me back.
And then I'm doing it, doing
the work, doing the work.
And I'm like--
>>LISA: You went back?
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
I needed the job.
>>LISA: OK.
>>RYDALL: I think it was my
wife that said, get a job.
But no, it was very important.
I knew that I was
doing important work.
cultivating something
in that gymnasium of my
soul called this job.
>>LISA: So it was
just a working ground.
>>RYDALL: It was.
>>LISA: It was just a school.
>>RYDALL: And people started--
I mean, I got amazing tips.
They wrote to corporate
about my waiting.
And then I got
fired a third time.
And so I stay fired that time.
And I knew my work was done.
And within about a few weeks
I got hired doing the work I
really wanted to do
almost on accident,
making 20 times more and being
wined and dined in five-star
restaurants and being able to
be of service, be excellent,
do all the things--
So that didn't
happen in my future.
I was developing the conditions
to match that seed right there
on the job.
So I'm saying that to say--
>>LISA: Good point.
OK.
I see.
>>RYDALL: Whatever
relationship you're in,
whatever job you're in,
whatever situation that's bad,
that's your gym.
Now, the only caveat is if it's
literally violent or abusive,
get out and work on
yourself in a safe distance.
>>LISA: Right.
So we got through three
of the steps of emergence.
I think it might have--
>>RYDALL: So create the quantum
plan was the one we were on.
And you want to design
your life based on those.
And you can just start
with one quality at a time.
And then with the
being quality, it's
a slightly different question.
You just ask what would it--
let's say the being is playful,
be more playful.
What would it look
like to be more--
to step into being
more playful now?
Because again, we're putting a
lot of these qualities on hold,
on the layaway plan.
I'll be more playful when?
I'll be more generous
when I have more money.
And the problem is it
doesn't work that way.
That's backwards.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>RYDALL: You have
to activate it first.
And so you ask, what
would it look like?
And if you're willing,
you'll begin to get guidance.
And you'll find ways
to step into being.
So as you're now feeling
and you're being,
you've designed a way of
life that's congruent.
That becomes part of your plan.
That's the quantum plan.
>>LISA: OK.
Well, what about when things
don't go your way, when--
>>RYDALL: Yes.
>>LISA: You love that?
This morning--
>>RYDALL: I love being contrary.
>>LISA: You do.
OK, good.
Well, help me on this one.
So this morning
my daughter didn't
get her homework
done for school.
But it wasn't
necessarily her thing.
The days prior I had
a bunch of events
that I brought her to
with me because I wanted
her participation in the events
and I wanted her to be with me.
We had a blast.
We had a great time,
lots of great connection.
And then she forgot an
assignment the night before.
And everything blew
up in the morning.
OK.
I feel very guilty about
that, because it took away
all the fun that we had.
And I wanted to--
and I didn't want
to make her feel bad for
the fun that I was tired,
exhausted, stressed, and I
had deadlines I missed also.
So I feel guilty
about this morning.
So how did I bring something
to that party that I'm missing?
What did you say?
You--
>>RYDALL: That when you
walk into a room, whatever
is missing is what
you're not bringing.
>>LISA: Correct.
>>RYDALL: Or whatever you
meet is what you brought.
>>LISA: OK.
I'm still working on this one.
OK.
So I didn't bring compassion.
I didn't bring forgiveness.
I brought a tired
mother to the scene.
>>RYDALL: And even
more important, I
think, because that's
one way to look at it,
which is a little bit kind
of beating yourself up.
>>LISA: Totally.
>>RYDALL: So there's
a pattern of-- we
won't go into a
coaching session.
But there's a pattern there.
So that's-- so the
real gift here--
>>LISA: Why not go into
a coaching session?
That's exactly the
way I was raised.
Yes.
Beating myself up.
>>RYDALL: It's there.
It's also connected to the stuff
we were talking about earlier.
But anyways, don't
get me started,
because I'll just
go right into it.
>>LISA: Go.
>>RYDALL: Because I can
start to see the patterns.
You know, I can see.
I can see the childhood.
I can see it all going do,
do, do, do, do, do, do.
>>LISA: Yup.
>>RYDALL: But one of the gifts
here is how it made you feel,
like a bad parent or
like controlling or--
>>LISA: All that stuff
from my childhood,
like how I was yelled at
totally came out of my mouth.
>>RYDALL: How you
experienced your mom.
Exactly.
>>LISA: And I couldn't
believe I did that.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
>>LISA: And I was
conscious in the process,
going don't let it come up.
Don't let it come up.
But it was surfacing.
>>RYDALL: Now, that's
really important.
I know that very well.
I'm getting chills again.
>>LISA: Very tough
position to be in.
>>RYDALL: It's really
important, because that's a key.
As transformation
happens, you'll
even notice you have awareness.
And you're like, no,
don't take the bait.
Don't take the bait.
>>LISA: Don't do it.
Don't do it.
Oh.
>>RYDALL: Oh.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
It's that consciousness
caving in.
>>RYDALL: Just like,
shoosh, grabs the bait.
>>LISA: What is that?
What is that?
>>RYDALL: It's a muscle.
And it's just it hasn't been--
>>LISA: It's exercising.
>>RYDALL: The awareness muscle
under that heat of that pattern
hasn't gotten strong enough yet.
That's one reason.
And the other reason
is the pattern
itself hasn't been
embraced enough yet.
There's still a fight with it.
>>LISA: Got it.
>>RYDALL: And so the irony
is that the part of us that's
like don't do it,
don't do it, don't
do it is actually giving
the pattern more energy.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>RYDALL: So it's like
if you push on my hand
and I push back,
the more I push,
the more you're
going to push back.
It's a natural tendency.
So when you begin
to look at, well,
what is the thing
I don't want to be?
I don't want to be
this controlling
you know what that my mom was.
That's the shadow.
>>LISA: Yes.
None of us do.
>>RYDALL: Right.
And that's a shadow.
And here's the great news.
>>LISA: OK.
>>RYDALL: The great news is
that part of you is beautiful.
The controlling,
crazy, aggressive,
angry you know what is a
gorgeous, beautiful, rich part
of you, like the soil.
But it's got a charge
on it right now.
It's misunderstood.
And it's a misunderstood
part of you.
And she's crying out to be seen,
to be understood, to be held,
to be loved, and to finally
be accepted back to the table.
And what she has to bring you
is a level of power and strength
and clarity and
control in a bigger
sense of the word that
you haven't yet to touch
but that your soul
is aching to have,
that will create a structure
for an even bigger life,
an even deeper and richer life.
So she's got all
these gifts for you.
But she got--
>>LISA: Checked.
>>RYDALL: When you were younger,
it was a coping mechanism.
You saw that.
And it's like, no way
will I ever be that.
That's bad.
And so you began to become
the opposite, sweet and nice--
>>LISA: Too docile.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
>>LISA: Not saying my opinion.
>>RYDALL: The good
girl, all of that stuff.
And again, that's the gift.
The gift is you are a very
sweet, very heart-centered,
very kind, very
conscious person.
And that core wound
was a core initiation.
That was actually
initiating you on your path,
because it caused you,
through that pain when
you felt controlled and
repressed and out of control,
it caused you to have
to find deeper places,
to find your own
connection and peace.
>>LISA: My daughter said
something really important
to me in the car on
the way to school
as I realized the
pattern was happening
and then I'm like, we're
10 minutes in school.
Calm down.
And she said to me
something so beautiful.
She said, "Mom, you're
making me feel stupid."
It was golden.
That moment was so beautiful.
>>RYDALL: Exactly how you felt.
>>LISA: Yes.
And she checked me.
And I went doot, doot, doot.
Oh, that's the way
my mom made me feel.
And then I failed math.
And so I needed to
prove all that to her.
And I'm like, oh my god.
My daughter is
anything but stupid.
She is brilliant.
She is beautiful.
She is whole.
And she checked her mom.
>>RYDALL: Yes.
>>LISA: In that moment--
>>RYDALL: And a
child shall lead us.
>>LISA: Yes.
And she's 11.
And she was able
to do that to me.
So I get now the opportunity
to apologize tonight.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
And you also--
>>LISA: To learn.
>>RYDALL: --get the
opportunity to think of her
like also an out-picturing
of the little girl in you.
>>LISA: Yes.
To heal that wound.
>>RYDALL: Because the part
that really needs to be held
and hugged and loved is her.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>RYDALL: I mean that's the
biggest healing is the you.
>>LISA: Is the me her.
>>RYDALL: Is the little you.
Yeah.
And also, fall in love.
When you understand it's the
shadow work, part of the shadow
work which is part
of stage six, we
could have skipped
a couple stages.
But stage six of emergence is
embrace what appears broken.
And so when you embrace
like the stupid self.
The stupid self, I
love my stupid self.
I'm so stupid.
And here's the thing.
It's true.
But when you love
the stupid self, then
what happens when you
don't love the stupid self,
you do a couple things.
You strive really
hard to be smart.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>RYDALL: And that's a gift.
But you also are afraid to
ask questions sometimes.
You kind of really monitor
what you say and kind of
have a lot of control
around it so you
don't say something stupid
or do something stupid.
When you fall in love
with the stupid self
and integrate him or
her back into you,
it frees you up and allows
you to be a student,
to be a learner, to ask
all the questions you need.
>>LISA: To be playful.
>>RYDALL: To be playful.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>RYDALL: And also, it makes
you a channel now of wisdom
and transcendent wisdom
beyond your human mind
and your history.
When I'm speaking or
teaching or coaching,
stuff comes through
me, and I'm just like,
whoa, that's pretty cool.
And I'm learning and watching
as it's coming through,
because I'm not
judging or monitoring.
And I'll say some
things sometimes
that are like really intense.
Like somebody will be
all sad and all kind of--
and I won't be sympathetic.
I'll just be like, shh, you
need to-- And it's like crack.
And they start crying
and then laughing.
And in minutes, not months,
they're having a healing.
But if I was afraid of being
stupid or for me being a bad
guy, being a jerk-- which
are part of my shadows--
before I embraced those
things, I was a very nice coach
and a very helpful--
>>LISA: And you really
weren't helping anyone.
>>RYDALL: I was a cheerleader.
And when I embraced that,
it's like, you know,
sometimes my work is to
comfort the afflicted.
But a lot of times it's to
afflict the comfortable.
>>LISA: Mmn.
Cause the abrasion.
>>RYDALL: Yeah, you know?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>RYDALL: There's
one line in the Bible
where Jesus says, do not think
I've come to bring peace.
I've come with a sword
to separate mother
from daughter and
father from son.
He's talking about
truth cuts sometimes.
But anyways, so when you
embrace those parts of you,
a whole new world of gifts
and energy gets freed up.
And all the struggle, the
war-- because the only conflict
going on is the one in us.
>>LISA: Oh, yeah.
And this has nothing
to do with her.
She simply-- she
underestimated the assignment.
And it had nothing
to do with her.
>>RYDALL: Right
>>LISA: Nothing to do with her.
It had everything to do
with the perfection pictures
that I was raised
with and not being
able to speak up and all
of that fabulous stuff.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
And you now being
able to-- as you
fall in love with your stupid,
lazy, inadequate self and just
love her up and just
realize she's so cool
and she just frees
you up so much,
you'll be able to model
that for your daughter.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>RYDALL: And be like, let's
just be totally stupid and just
lazy and just--
>>LISA: That's a good idea.
>>RYDALL: And she'll
get the model now
that it's totally cool.
There's no threat there.
>>LISA: It's OK.
Yeah.
>>RYDALL: And the
fears that we suddenly
won't be disciplined
and focused.
No.
You'll be more so.
In fact, when you have the other
shadow and you aren't embracing
it, a lot of times like
a kid that's acting out,
that part of you will sabotage
your success and the things
you're-- it'll say, you
think you have a plan?
Watch me totally wreck it.
So it'll sabotage those
things to get your attention
so that you'll feel stupid.
You'll feel like a failure.
But that's the opening.
>>LISA: So nothing that
you're talking about here
has anything to do with
manifestation or goal-setting
or anything outside.
It's all like what
you just gave,
my example, that emergence
within me of that self that
needs healing that-- in order
to be more fun and more playful
will create whatever
goal it is that I want.
>>RYDALL: Exactly.
As you embrace-- I
mean, it's a process.
>>LISA: It's a great example.
>>RYDALL: But as you
embrace those parts of you,
qualities are going
to be activated
in you that are not right now,
frequencies that are not right
now.
And as those frequencies
come together,
that's a match to a
larger version of you
that's already here.
That pattern, that's
a match for that.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>RYDALL: And then how
this life experience works
is when you tune
in to the station
and your station matches the
frequency of the station,
what's broadcasting in the
invisible becomes manifest.
That's why I call it
your manifest-station.
>>LISA: Got it.
>>RYDALL: So it does
become manifest.
It's very real and
very practical.
And I want to say
this is-- we'll
jump to stage four real
quick, because I want
to say this is not
about not taking action.
Once you know what your
vision is, what you want--
and by the way, let's
say you wanted--
part of that bigger
vision was more playful,
and you're doing this
great work and visualizing
and all of a sudden this
whole thing blows up
with your daughter.
You're like, oh my god.
This isn't working,
what Derek told me.
It's working perfectly.
>>LISA: Perfectly.
>>RYDALL: It's giving
you the condition
to see where you're actually not
letting more of that come out.
I just wanted to
make that example,
because you asked earlier why
are these problems and crises,
how is that all part of
the bigger unfolding?
>>LISA: So stuff
still happens with you
and systems still break down
and things still go wrong.
>>RYDALL: Oh, yeah.
>>LISA: And you do what?
>>RYDALL: And I drink a little.
No, I'm just kidding.
No.
Water.
You know, some highly
oxygenated alkaline water.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Exactly.
>>RYDALL: So well,
you know, it's funny.
Jesus didn't turn
the wine into water.
He turned the water into wine.
>>LISA: OK.
>>RYDALL: He was at
a lot of parties.
I don't know.
>>LISA: It was a
constant party back then.
>>RYDALL: Constant.
No.
So I do the work.
>>LISA: Thank you for
being playful, by the way.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
Exactly.
>>LISA: Things break down.
It happens.
>>RYDALL: Things break down.
My wife went through cancer,
through breast cancer.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>RYDALL: My son got kicked
out of school for drugs.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>RYDALL: You know, he
came out as being gay.
He crashed his first two cars.
My first two teams at
my company fell apart.
All kinds of
wonderful challenges.
But what every single one
gives me the opportunity
to do is, first of
all, it's always
a check to see where
am I really living?
All these great teachings
and ideas, blah, blah, blah.
Where am I really?
Where am I really anchored?
Do I really have
love and real peace?
>>LISA: What's really
lighting me up?
>>RYDALL: What do I really
own in my consciousness?
So I get to experience
that, right?
And that's a really cool thing.
And the next thing
is, this comes up.
It's like, ooh.
Now more of me is going to get
to be activated, more of me
is going to be revealed.
And so I do the work.
First of all, I don't
judge by appearances.
I don't try to be a
problem-solver, because as long
as you're trying
to solve a problem,
you're stuck at the
frequency of the problem.
That's why Einstein
said you can't
solve a problem at the level
of thinking that created it,
or why race car drivers learn
that if you're speeding out
of control to a wall,
don't focus on the wall.
>>LISA: Let go, yeah.
>>RYDALL: If you focus
on the wall, the problem,
you're going to hit it.
But if you focus on
where you want to go--
>>LISA: You turn in to--
>>RYDALL: The hands
follow the eyes.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>RYDALL: And the energy
follows your attention.
So you want to move from
being a problem-solver
to a vision-holder.
That's why we start with vision.
So you always go
back to the vision.
What's the vision?
What's trying to emerge?
So you're anchored in vision.
And then you do the cultivation.
So I'm activating
the joy and the peace
and the love, regardless
of the conditions.
And then you look at
the condition and go,
what's that bringing up in me?
You know, oh, I'm
terrible, I'm a failure,
I'm a loser, whatever it is.
And then I do the
stage six work.
Again, we're skipping over.
And I begin to embrace that part
of me and ask that part of me,
what's your lesson for me?
What's your gift?
What do you need from me to
become integrated into my life
more fully?
And it will start
to speak to you.
And it will say, I
need you to go play.
I need you to-- whatever.
It's different for everyone.
>>LISA: Yeah.
But you're saying--
>>RYDALL: But I do the work.
>>LISA: You're
saying go into it.
If there's an issue, go into it.
>>RYDALL: Don't try
to get rid of it.
>>LISA: And a lot of
people are afraid of doing
the regression or the
therapy because they
don't want to go
through the pain of it.
But you're saying it
doesn't necessarily
have to have the pain.
I mean, yes it can.
But let the pain emerge so
that it can finally get out.
>>RYDALL: Yeah.
And the pain is like
that forest fire.
Sometimes the pain is necessary
because pain focuses us.
When there's pain,
you're like zhoop.
>>LISA: Yes.
I've made a decision.
Yes.
>>RYDALL: And so pain
happens for that reason.
But it doesn't have
to be suffering.
Suffering is where
you're judging it.
You're making it and you wrong.
And you are resisting it.
You're trying to get
or get rid of something
instead of embracing it.
And then the action
piece then is--
>>LISA: Is that step five?
>>RYDALL: That's step five.
We skipped step four.
But step four is really
whatever's missing
is what you're not giving.
We've talked a lot about it.
And that's where you start
to look at where are you
trying to get stuff from people?
And I show you
how to start first
of all giving it to yourself
and then start activating it
so that you're
radiating it even more.
And that reverses the flow
so that energetically you're
no longer trying to get
anything from anyone.
You recognize that
you're the source.
And even when someone
gives you something,
you know that it's not
really coming from them.
It's coming through them.
They're not your source.
They're your channel.
And it changes
transactional relationship
into transformational
relationship.
And then stage five, act
as if you're already it.
You now understand that
action is like affirmation
in work clothes, that you
use your actions not so
much again to try to
make something happen.
But you go, if I really
was an abundant person--
my vision is abundance.
I'm feeling abundant.
I'm creating a
life of abundance.
And then you go to the
grocery store and--
>>LISA: You don't have enough
money for anything now.
>>RYDALL: Or you really want
to get those organic apples
but they're $0.99 more.
And you're like, oh,
I can't afford that.
Well, that might be
a perfect opportunity
to take a congruent action
and get those apples.
As Deepak Chopra once said,
adopt a life of luxury and life
will rise up to meet you.
But you make actions
that are a match, again,
not to make it happen--
I want to be clear.
You're not trying
to achieve anything.
But faith without works is dead.
>>LISA: And do it in
small ways so that it--
>>RYDALL: Do it in small ways.
Yeah.
You're not trying to
walk on water right away.
But you're just
looking-- if somebody
was to peer in on your life
and turn the sound down,
would they say, wow,
that person really
believes they're abundant?
Or would they go, you're
doing all these affirmations
and all this stuff.
And then you're like, oh my god.
The economy's terrible.
There's not enough work,
so your conversation--
>>LISA: Right.
That's the noise.
>>RYDALL: So you want to ask
that question, if somebody
was to look at my life, would
they-- like if somebody was
to have spied on me when
I was waiting on tables,
they would have said, god.
He's like so into this job.
He loves his work.
He brings so much of himself.
He is like on fire with
excellence and inspiration.
And he's a real leader.
Because that's what
I was bringing.
>>LISA: Yes.
That was your work at the time.
>>RYDALL: And so I
was taking action.
I was acting into the role.
And we become what
we pretend to be.
We've just got to
make sure we're
pretending to be
who we really are.
>>LISA: So if people want
to find the seven steps,
they can go to your
website, which is--
>>RYDALL: Which is
DerekRydall.com.
>>LISA: OK.
Your name.
>>RYDALL:
D-E-R-E-K-R-Y-D-A-L-L dot com.
Or just lawofemergence.com.
>>LISA: OK.
And then, for those that
really want this final step,
what is the final step?
>>RYDALL: The final step.
>>LISA: What is the
final-- recognize that--
>>RYDALL: You're going
to have to tune in later.
>>LISA: --within you that
need for that final step
needs to emerge.
>>RYDALL: Yes.
Yes.
Well, the final step, stage
seven, is wait upon the law.
And this is a really
important stage in the sense
that we might do
all of this work.
We've planted the seed.
We've cultivated the soil.
We've watered it,
weeded it, feeded it,
you know, prayed
over it, laid hands
over it, danced around
it, done all the work,
and have structure around
it, which is your plan.
And it's not growing.
>>LISA: Right.
>>RYDALL: And so
what the temptation
is is to dig up the seed and
go, what's wrong with this?
And what does that
look like in our life?
It looks like dropping
back down vibrationally
in your conversation,
in your actions,
reverting back to old habits
because it's not working.
>>LISA: Right.
>>RYDALL: Well,
it's not working,
so now you're complaining.
You're judging.
You're giving up.
You're falling off the path.
And like the
Chinese bamboo tree,
you water it and weed it and
feed it for like five years
and it grows like a half
an inch or something.
And then in the
fifth year-- and I
might be getting my
years slightly wrong,
but it's a long time.
Within about six
to eight weeks, it
grows eight or
nine stories tall.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>RYDALL: So this
is the definition
of an overnight success, right?
And all of that time, it was
building a deep root system.
So sometimes what's
trying to grow up--
>>LISA: Cultivate, yeah.
>>RYDALL: It needs also
to equally grow down.
>>LISA: Oh, interesting.
>>RYDALL: Because the deeper the
roots, the higher the shoots,
the richer the fruits.
And so a lot of us want to
just grow our branches up
to the light.
But we don't want to grow
our roots down into the dark.
And you have a tree and a
little wind comes along,
it just goes poof.
So when we have those-- the
patience of unanswered prayer.
It's like you wait on the law.
And it's working.
But you want to just keep
going into the feeling
tone, the state, the
actions as if it's true.
And then the final thing
I'll say before we close
is just that you hit
what I call thresholds.
And we already talked
a little bit about it.
But that's where all of the
reasons why you weren't living
this life already
start to come up.
All the shadows, the patterns,
the values conflicts,
all the reasons why you
think you didn't deserve it
>>LISA: But that's a
good thing, though.
>>RYDALL: It's a great thing.
>>LISA: It's a great thing.
>>RYDALL: You just have to
understand that's a threshold.
It's a boundary in
your consciousness.
>>LISA: And go
through it, over it.
>>RYDALL: And now you
have to work through it.
Stay with it.
It doesn't mean
you've messed up.
it's not working.
It doesn't mean you need to
find a new seed or a new tool
or a new place to bury it.
It means you're
actually growing.
>>LISA: Great.
>>RYDALL: And you
have to do the work.
>>LISA: Great.
Well, thank you
very much, Derek.
>>RYDALL: You're welcome.
>>LISA: You're fun to talk to.
>>RYDALL: Likewise.
>>LISA: And fascinating
information.
Thank you so much.
>>RYDALL: Thank you.
>>LISA: If you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Derek Rydall, you
could go to gaiamtv.com
and you could share
it with your friends.
Until next time, I invite
you to stay inspired.